### Connect SSMS to SQL Express Server

Once you download the Microsoft SQL Server Managment Studio(SSMS), the SQL Express Server will be running in the background by default. The following steps show how to connect to the SQL Express Server from the SSMS.

1. Open the SSMS application
2. Go to "View" -> "Object Explore"
3. Click on "Connect Object Explore"
4. Set "Server type" to "Database Engine"
5. Set "Server name" to your SQL Express Server name (This may be provided by default)
6. Set "Authentication" to "Windows Authentication"
7. Click on "Connect"

### Create Database

Make sure you have started your SQL server and the SSMS is connected to that server. The following steps describe how to create a new database.

1. Expand the server
2. Right click on the "Databases" folder
3. Click on "New Database"
4. Give a name to your database and click on "OK"

### Create Tables and Columns

Models are represented by tables in a database. Each table has a list of columns which represent properties of the model and it has a number of rows. The following steps show how to create a new table and design the table.

1. Right click on "Tables" in the database you want the table to be added to
2. Click on "New" -> "Table"

Now you have created a new table. Tables need to have at least one primary key. The following steps show how to create a primary key.

1. Set "Column Name" to "Id"
2. Set "Data Type" to "int"
3. Untick "Allow Nulls" 
4. Right click on the left side of the row and click on "Set Primary Key"

### Connect Visual Studio to Database

The database and Visual Studio must be connected to send queries to the database from a MVC application. The following steps show how to connect to a database from Visual Studio.

1. Go to "View" -> "Server Explore"
2. Click on "Connect to Database"
3. Set "Server name" to your SQL server name
4. In the "Connect to a database" section, set the name of the database you want to connect to
5. Click on "OK"

### Generate Models from Database 

Models can be generated automatically from the tables in the database. The following steps show how to generate models with a command and how to use those models.

1. Go to "View" -> "Nuget Package Manager" -> "Manage Nuget Package" -> "Package Manager Console"
2. In the "Package Manager Console", run the following commands
```
Install-Package Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore.SqlServer
Install-Package Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore.Design
Install-Package Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore.Tools
```
3. Run the following command with your server name and database name
```
Scaffold-DbContext "Server=['Server Name'];Database=['Database Name'];Trusted_Connection=True;" Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore.SqlServer -OutputDir Models
```
4. Go to "Server Explore" and click on the database you want to use
5. Copy the database connection string on the "Properties" panel
6. Add the following key-value pair to the "appsettings.json" file with the "ConnectionString" replaced by your database connection string
```
"ConnectionStrings": {
    "ContextClassName": "ConnectionString"
}
```
7. Add the following line of code to your "Program.cs"
```
...
builder.Services.AddControllersWithViews();

// Copy the below code to your "Program.cs"
builder.Services.AddDbContext<DbContextName>(options => options.UseSqlServer(builder.Configuration.GetConnectionString("ContextClassName")));
...
```

The step 6 and 7 allows the MVC application to communicate with the database. Now you can create, update and delete rows in the database by using the database context class that has been generated by the command.
